---
layout: event
title: "#63.1 - 6G: bridging gaps, connecting futures"
date:   2024-04-17T19:45:00+02:00
categories: event
slug: "6G-futures"
---

## What should 6G be?

### Mohamed-Slim Alouini - Al-Khawarizmi Distinguished Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering @ [King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST)](//www.kaust.edu.sa){:target="_blank"}

The transformative influence of Internet and Communication Technology (ICT) has reshaped society, touching every aspect from the economy to healthcare. As the widespread deployment of 5G continues, there is an ongoing focus on the inception of the sixth generation (6G) of wireless communication systems (WCSs). Anticipated to shape the future of connectivity in the 2030s, 6G aims to deliver unparalleled communication services to meet the demands of hyper-connectivity.
While densely populated urban areas have traditionally been the primary beneficiaries of WCS advancements, the vision for 6G transcends city limits. Aligned with the United Nations' sustainability goals for 2030, an important aspect of 6G endeavors to democratize the benefits of ICT, fostering global connectivity sustainably. This talk delves into this particular envisioned landscape of 6G, providing insights into the future of wireless communication and guiding research efforts toward sustainable, inclusive, and high-speed connectivity solutions for the future.
Central to this discussion are two emerging technologies: Free Space Optics (FSO) and Non-Terrestrial Networks (NTN). These innovative solutions hold the promise of extending high-speed connectivity beyond urban hubs to underserved regions, fostering digital inclusivity, and contributing to the development of remote areas.
Through this exploration, we aim to convey the potential of 6G and its role in shaping a connected, sustainable future for all.

<iframe src="//www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/key/6m3PDCQecEd8Qy" width="595" height="485" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen> </iframe>

## Weren't you there?

### or maybe you just want to relive this wonderful night

<section class="fb-links">

#### Check the video!

<iframe width="100%" height="480px" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ovsg9qmULUI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

#### and take a look at the <a id="fb_photo_album" class="btn-facebook" target="_blank" href="//photos.app.goo.gl/BR3EpJzmXCgPsekx8">pictures &#128247;</a>

</section>